scepticism and secularism ultimately is
about the pursuit of cultural change
don't tell me it's about a string of
academic anecdotes about the progress of
science it's not what do you want if
you're an atheist activist secularists
skeptic what do you want you want to
live in a society where people do not
mutilate the genitals of their newborn
babies male or female male circumcision
feel you want to live in a world that's
not ruled by crass superstition by
belief in impossible things with all the
terrible social and political
consequences to then follow from those
beliefs right so you want cultural
change that's what you want now how are
you gonna get it it's sad and strange
for me to say you're never gonna get
there - the focus of any example of
skeptic and secularists movements that
I've ever seen in my life right up till
2019 I think they're all fundamentally
wrong because they're being
fundamentally dishonest about that
simplest of questions what is the
positive objective weren't pursuit of
what is it we want and you find out who
we are by looking around the boardroom
table and seeing who wants that same
objective as soon as you're really being
honest about it the objective of a
secular society does not actually rest
on science education it doesn't rest on
any high and refined principle of
philosophy what it rests on is demanding
new legislation that will drag religion
down to the same level of marketing and
advertising and demand truth and
fairness and accountability in
advertising I believe that a Christian
friar and a Buddhist monk I believe they
should have the freedom to advertise
that they perform
funeral services that you can pay them a
certain amount of money and they're
gonna perform a certain kind of
theatrical ritual whatever it is
involving candles music mood lighting
and they're gonna lower this casket into
the ground or incinerate the body
they're gonna chant maybe in Latin maybe
in Greek maybe they're gonna sing songs
in English maybe in Pali Sanskrit you
name it to perform a ritual for a
certain amount of money for a certain
kind of theatrical and emotional effect
nobody wants to make illegal conversely
to offer someone who is sick and
desperate the promise that if they pay
money to a religious leader if they pay
so many thousand dollars that a magic
ritual can be performed that will cure
them to have a person refuse
science-based medicine to have a person
walk out of a hospital and say no I
don't need treatment for my cancer
because I believe in a faith-based
treatment solution they believe in
miracles and in this world the 21st
century as never before
miracles are bought and paid for
there are receipts and there are
websites advertising them and there are
pamphlet the Rev Desmond newspaper and
in the United States of America for
example because of the Constitution and
the way that Constitution is interpreted
and enforced there's no concept of false
advertising in religion and I think one
of the reasons why I don't know atheists
and skeptics up to this point haven't
wanted to deal with this is that if you
create a category for false advertising
you have to reciprocally recognize that
there's something that's legitimate
advertising that's in some sense
legitimate religion even if that's just
legitimate in the same sense that
theater is legitimate it's a
formants art of some kind okay I looked
through the websites of the four iconic
names Richard Dawkins Christopher
Hitchens Daniel Dennett and Sam Harris
before making this video to see what
they've actually been doing in the last
several years and you know was they kind
of reached a crescendo of public
interest maybe ten years ago and we've
now watched that whole movement
dissipate and die and I'm gonna tell you
why it dissipated and it died because it
wasn't pursuing a positive objective
it was pursuing a purely negative
objective I got an avalanche of email
YouTube messages
Twitter comments from so-called atheist
activists it's cavitus when I was
proposing positively hey I'm gonna write
a bunch of original children's stories
I'm gonna write and illustrate and
publish original trona stories that I
can perform for my daughter or the
storybook and puppets I'm gonna write
these stories because I'm dissatisfied
living in a world were pretty much all
the children's entertainment and story
she has access to or either religious on
the one hand or completely meaningless
on the other there's kind of junk made
by Disney which is secular Disney's a
secular corporation none of their stuff
as religious meanings and then there's
the whole world of religion being
presented to enforce down children's
throats and I really see a lot of danger
and disadvantage even in a
commercialized Christmas being in coke
Aidid into children and their view of
them and the messages I got back and
these atheists and so-called skeptics
they really are imitating the leaders of
that movement over the last nine years
their answer was no they don't have to
do anything positive they don't have to
pursue any kind of cultural change all
they need to do is sit back with their
sense of
smug superiority and laughs laughs
scornfully at the true believers whom
they feel so intellectually superior to
and that's what I see that's what I see
in making a survey of what these guys
have gone on to do in the last 10 years
obviously it's not perfect but I don't
see anything I would call activism you
know sharing a funny little anecdote
about some new scientific discovery
concerning the Mars
you know Mars exploration program some
you know snide laughing at some
ridiculous thing some creation as the
United States did a whole these rednecks
so these is kind of the you know elite
university educated class sitting back
preening enjoying their sense of smug
superiority and heaping scorn on the on
the plebs on the lower classes and it is
especially you know the the poor and
ignorant of the United States of America
who become the butt of these jokes who
become the stereotypical
true believer why because that's safe
it's a lot riskier to take on Saudi
Arabia isn't it it takes guts to
actually deal with say women's rights in
Saudi Arabia it takes guts to take on
even circumcision male-female there are
other challenges for the future of you
know secular education having a say or
sight but actually takes some nerve
Verve tenacity but it's not what's not
what Sam Harris is doing it's not what
Daniel Dennett always thought Richard
Dawkins is doing Christopher Hitchens is
dead while he was alive so he was doing
either so the leaders the people who
were most highly visible at the pinnacle
of this movement and I would say it's
more broadly I know there are many other
smaller personalities here on YouTube
including even the amazing atheist they
really set this pattern of behavior for
this preening snide fatuous
self-indulgent sanctimonious heir of
what it meant to be a secular activists
a quote-unquote skeptic and there never
was
any sense of positive motivation of wow
we're going up against more than 2,000
years of tradition and ritual and you
know pious ignorance all these things we
have this and you know what our
challenge is actually very different
from the abolition of slavery because
it's not something that can just be
expressed negatively it's something that
people really need to cultivate
positively like a positive appreciation
for science you know a large part
evidently of what Richard Dawkins cares
about is trying to get people to care
about even geological history natural
history in that sense most people don't
care they just don't care how old is
planet Earth most people don't care how
do we estimate the age of a volcano
don't care it's not some people get
motivated but that's the kind of thing
he's out there lobbying on I sympathize
to an extent but the real practical
challenge which is attainable today in
the legislature of any Western democracy
anywhere in the world is actually to
separate the exploitative dishonest and
and harmful elements of religion from
the elements that can be tolerated and
in my opinion should be tolerated not
everyone would agree with that
and to take that step forward I don't
think you need to hold the religions of
the world to the high standard of the
best possible philosophy or the greatest
happiness for the greatest number of
people or some kind of optimal or
excellent standard I don't think you
have to hold them even to the standard
of the modern sciences of holding up the
Bible the creation has to counter the
history of the world and say well can
this really be reconciled with what we
know about geology and evolution but
let's let's take seriously what a
tremendous challenge it would be and yet
what an easily attainable goal it would
be if religion had to have the same
disclaimer
that today you find on every packet of
cigarettes on every bottle of whiskey
you know it says do not drink during
pregnancy depending on what country are
there some warnings on alcohol on
cigarettes of all the all the dangerous
things in here is your kitchen cabinet
and yet the moment something passes into
the category of religion you can cut off
a child's penis you can cut off about
50% of the nerve endings in the male
penis through quote unquote circumcision
male and female genital mutilation you
can get away with the most outlandish
completely medically illegitimate
procedures imaginable you can reach out
to someone who's desperate for help
who's desperate to believe and told them
exactly what they want to hear which is
don't worry have faith you can be healed
magically your cancer can be taken away
and there's a price there's always a
price all of that can be stopped all of
that can be ended within our lifetimes
and yet it's shocking to me that in the
last ten years and with so many
thousands of hours of listening to
podcasts and YouTube videos sometimes
reading the publication's the books
these guys have published to seeing this
movement rise and fall the international
conferences this is my modest proposal
guys I have never once heard this
proposed before